---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_user Resource - terraform-provider-truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  In TrueNAS, user accounts allow flexibility for accessing shared data. A common practice is to create users and assign them to groups. This allows for efficient permissions tuning for large numbers of users.
---

# truenas_user (Resource)

In TrueNAS, user accounts allow flexibility for accessing shared data. A common practice is to create users and assign them to groups. This allows for efficient permissions tuning for large numbers of users.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "truenas_user" "user" {
  uid = 1337
  username = "elliot"
  home = "/mnt/tank/home/elliot"
  shell = "/usr/local/bin/zsh"
  full_name = "Mr Robot"
  smb = true
  password = "5uperS3(ur3!"
  locked = false
  sudo = true
  sudo_nopasswd = true
  sudo_commands = [
    "/usr/bin/whoami"
  ]
  microsoft_account = false
  email = "elliot.alderson@protonmail.ch"
  groups = [
    11,
  ]
  sshpubkey = <<-EOF
    ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAklOUpkDHrfHY17SbrmTIpNLTGK9Tjom/BWDSU
    GPl+nafzlHDTYW7hdI4yZ5ew18JH4JW9jbhUFrviQzM7xlELEVf4h9lFX5QVkbPppSwg0cda3
    Pbv7kOdJ/MTyBlWXFCR+HAo3FXRitBqxiX1nKhXpHAZsMciLq8V6RjsNAQwdsdMFvSlVK/7XA
    t3FaoJoAsncM1Q9x5+3V0Ww68/eIFmb1zuUFljQJKprrX88XypNDvjYNby6vw/Pb0rwert/En
    mZ+AW4OZPnTPI89ZPmVMLuayrD2cE86Z/il8b+gw3r3+1nKatmIkjn2so1d01QraTlMqVSsbx
    NrRFi9wrf+M7Q==
    EOF
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `full_name` (String) This user's full name.
- `username` (String) Username

### Optional

- `email` (String) This user's email address.
- `groups` (Set of Number) List of group IDs this user is member in (resource IDs, not GIDs).
- `home` (String) This user's home directory. Must begin with /mnt, followed by a valid pool or disk name and be writable.
- `locked` (Boolean) Prevent the user from logging in or using password-based services until this option is unset. Locking an account is only possible when Disable Password is No and a Password has been created for the account.
- `microsoft_account` (Boolean) Microsoft account: Allow additional username authentication methods for Windows >=8 clients.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) This user's password.
- `password_disabled` (Boolean) Password disabled: The account cannot use password-based logins for services.
- `primary_group` (Number) Group ID of this user's primary group (resource ID, not GID). If set, needs to exist.
- `shell` (String) This user's shell executable, absolute path.
- `smb` (Boolean) Samba authentication: Set to allow user to authenticate to Samba shares.
- `sshpubkey` (String) This user's SSH pubkey.
- `sudo` (Boolean) Permit sudo usage by this user.
- `sudo_commands` (Set of String) List of permitted sudo commands for this user.
- `sudo_nopasswd` (Boolean) Permit sudo usage without password authentication for this user.
- `uid` (Number) UID

### Read-Only

- `builtin` (Boolean) Whether this is a builtin user.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `id_type_both` (Boolean) Samba: ID_TYPE_BOTH
- `local` (Boolean) Whether this is a local user.
- `primary_group_name` (String) The name of this user's primary group.
- `smbhash` (String, Sensitive) Password hash (SMB)
- `unixhash` (String, Sensitive) Password hash (UNIX)
- `user_id` (Number) User ID


